hi this is pressure Locker how many
triangles do you see in this picture
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for the
solution we need to count the number of
triangles very carefully well first
consider triangles which have a size of
4 which means its side length is equal
to 4 times the smallest triangle there's
exactly one triangle of this type and
this triangle is facing upward let's
continue counting only the number of
triangles which are facing upward let's
count the number of triangles which have
size 3 in the bottom row there are two
of these triangles and one row above
that there's one so that makes four
total of three triangles of size three
facing up how many triangles are there
size two facing up the bottom row has
three the next row has two and one row
above that has 1 3 plus 2 plus 1 is 6
finally we count the number of triangles
of size 1 facing up the bottom row has 4
the next row has 3 the next row has 2
and the top row has one 4 plus 3 plus 2
plus 1 is equal to 10 now we need to
count the number of triangles which are
facing down we'll start by counting the
number of triangles of size 1 the bottom
row has 3 the next row has 2 and the
robe of that has 1 3 plus 2 plus 1 is
equal to 6 now we count the number of
triangles of size 2 facing down and
there's exactly one now as you can see
this is the largest size triangle that's
facing down so there are no triangles of
size 3 or 4 facing down so we've now
listed out all the triangles and we can
total this up to get that there are 27
triangles in this picture now what would
happen if we want to generalize this for
a base that has n smaller triangles well
we could we have we found a pattern in
the shape we just saw the number of
triangles facing up of size n
the largest size was equal to one the
next size there were two more of them
the next size there were more of them
according to this shape each time we
were adding the next number in the
sequence these are the triangular
numbers which are the shapes you can
form that have a triangular arrangement
of shapes and they're equal to the sum
of the numbers from 1 to n the triangles
of the smallest size 1 were equal to the
triangular number of size n now in many
videos we figured out the way to sum up
the numbers from 1 to N and this is the
triangular formula number which is equal
to n times n plus 1 over 2 to count the
number of triangles facing down we start
from the triangles of size 1 this will
be offset by 1 so we start out with
triangular number of n minus 1 to get to
the next size of 2 we have to offset it
by 2 because each time the row is
decreasing in size so this is going to
go about halfway up and then the largest
two sizes many of the larger size we're
going to have 0 triangles facing down so
now we figured out a pattern and how to
count the number of triangles of each
size and we have a formula for the
number of triangular numbers equal to n
times n plus 1 over 2 so this actually
going to vary whether you have n equal
and is going to be even or n is going to
be odd but there's a nice way you can
summarize this if you add up all these
numbers the total number of triangles is
going to be n times n plus 2 times 2n
plus 1 all over 8 rounded down this will
give you the number of triangles it's
actually a sequence the number of
triangles formed if you have this
equilateral grid of triangles the
sequence starts out 1 5 13 27 was what
we had when we had four triangles in our
grid it continues 48 78 and so on
did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch around my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
follow me on social media at precious L
Walker
this video please check out my books
there links in the video description